many of you in the audience will have
wondered at some point who really killed
martin luther king jr
and why
probably you didn't want to know
what kind of gun they used or precisely
how they arranged and positioned the
shooters probably uh the details of when
and where the meetings took place and
how the plan was devised who paid for it
probably those details didn't interest
you but
in a book of this many pages produced
over so many years of research you will
not be surprised to find that you get
the answers to all those questions and
more um
this is an interesting sort of book
review because i'm uh
giving a positive
assessment of the book and i'm
recommending that you read the book
while i'm being actually quite harshly
critical of its author
this is really two books in one
appendix one of this book is a
transcription
of an interview with ron tyler adkins
adkins is spelled a d
k i n s it's not a famous name
i remember hearing
an interview
several years ago shaw i said many years
ago that's uh you can still just barely
find the internet as mp3 an interview he
gave to a really kind of shallow and
silly radio
radio talk show
one of those radio shows where the host
kind of acting like a comedian even when
the topic under consideration is in no
way amusing and the topic and they were
discussing was of course
who contrived to kill dr martin luther
king jr
he gave a very charismatic very
memorable performance in that interview
however it was also an aimless and
ultimately uninformative interview but
at that time i knew that this guy atkins
he had been a direct enough witness to
and participant in the events that he
was going to change forever the history
the formal written recorded history of
what happened and why in the conspiracy
to kill dr martin luther king jr and in
the actual execution of that plan how he
uh happened to die so
appendix one of this book
gives you the history
according to
ron atkins that'll regale you with one
moment i mean you know having heard that
that audio recording of an interview i
have some sense of the guy's character
or an intonation and voice he he says of
himself in the interview that's recorded
in this book that he never read a book
in his life
in between high school and the year 2000
when he started reading the bible
so the only book he read since leading
eyes leaving high school was the bible
and he only started that in the year
2000 and it's believable he's a man of
little to no formal education little to
no informal education also
um but he recalled vividly an anecdote
from when he was playing on the front
yard swings with his grandmother and
grandfather
now this grandmother and grandfather
they're really part of his family
history of being
simultaneously organized crime figures
in
memphis tennessee and yet also deeply
involved in and embedded with the
government working for both sides if you
like so his grandfather was a police
officer and i think he'd just come home
was maybe still wearing the uniform what
have you and his grandmother was playing
with him on the swing and he was he was
a small boyfriend he said it was eight
years old or what
and his grandmother said to him apropos
nothing uh that his grandfather was out
there on the yard too and she said
tell me something boy
do you know what the difference is
between a law man and a police
you know he's recounting all this in his
own accent and you know preserving the
accent and idiom of us of his own
grandmother and he was confused by the
question he looked at her and said no
why like he doesn't even know what she's
talking about
and she took off her shoe
she walked over to him and she held the
shoe in front of him as he was sitting
there on the swing this is just a
children's swing set and the front yard
she said to him
one step
and then for him the most telling part
of all that he reflected on years later
was that his grandfather the police
officer he was there and he started
freaking out said no no no don't tell
him about that don't explain that you
don't need to know about that stuff
like his grandfather knew there was
something she had in mind there was
something the grandmother wanted to
teach the grandson
you know probably having to do with some
kind of business some kind of
skullduggery that uh you know maybe his
father and grandfather at that stage
were already involved with so
a large part of appendix one
is roy adkins who was 16 years old at
the time of the assassination of martin
luther king rest in peace roy atkins
died this year just a few months ago in
2021 so i very much regret i will never
have a chance to meet him i'll never
have a chance to interview him i would
have very gladly written his biography
and i would have been happy not just to
interview him but to create a book
i'm filled with a certain kind of regret
because when i listen to that one radio
interview that a recording exists for
the interview was so badly conducted
it's such a waste of your time i'm not
gonna provide a link to it or anything
it doesn't aside from uh a few little
anecdotes like that giving you a sense
of the cultural milieu in memphis at
that time memphis in the 1960s you learn
nothing from the radio interview and
likewise this interview there are so
many points so you're like oh you're
asking the wrong questions you know
you're shutting him down when he's
telling you something really interesting
and worthwhile and you know oh it's very
frustrating to read and i guess we will
never get a biography of ron uh taylor
adkins there is one other lawyer
involved who's in the transcript here
who knew him at some greater length i
will google around as the years go by
and see if he ever writes a follow-up
book based on his other interviews with
or the extent to which he he knew the
guy a little bit of an interesting side
story um
this other lawyer not the lawyer who
wrote the book but a lawyer who's
present in that transcript he met ron
when they were doing humanitarian work
together in response to hurricane
katrina
and apparently this was a very stressful
very emotionally draining time they
started talking to each other
he says they became as close as brothers
or closer than brothers in this weird
situation of helping people out i don't
know if they were handing out food or
clearing debris or what they were doing
something uh in the aftermath of
hurricane katrina
and at some point you know you're
working long hours and you're sleep
deprived and ron said to the guy look i
got to tell you something i was involved
with the shooting of dr martin luther
king
so junior sorry
once in a while i leave the junior off
of dr martin luther king jr ah please
please forgive me so
atkins had this on his mind and he
recollects
in vivid detail and he admits by the way
he knows it on this deal because he had
been going over the details with this
other lawyer he's been talking about for
some months or some years he's been kind
of working through exactly what happened
when and in what order
but in large part the value of this book
is appendix one
and then the value of appendix one is
really hearing a significant part of
this guy's life story i wish we really
got his full autobiography but we don't
but in bits and pieces you you get i
mean it's completely uncensored you get
a lot of really funny curse words i was
while i was reading it i was saying some
of them out loud to melissa i just got a
laugh out of her some really strange
sense of humor in terms of phrase then
you get a vivid glimpse into what life
was like in the 1960s in memphis for
someone who was raised as a member of an
organized crime family
now as they organized crime
uh they were connected to the italian
mafia they were connected to one very
significant portuguese mafia figure but
yes
primarily their connections were to what
you would call redneck organized crime
some of whom were of course members of
the klu klux klan they were over racist
uh some of them were black though some
of them were african-americans i always
like to say you know for a lot of
racists of that generation
it's difficult for people today to
relate to how unconventionally racist
they were you know they were racist but
they weren't racist in a way that you
and i today can easily understand
um the problem with this book is that
it's not written
by ron taylor adkins that part appendix
one is completely invaluable
unfortunately the rest of the book is
written by this guy dr pepper
for some reason he refers to refer to
himself as dr william f pepper esquire i
don't know why he wouldn't just use the
name dr pepper i mean you could get that
on a t-shirt that's a great name
the story of dr pepper is much less
interesting to me and you can hear it
everywhere he's been telling the same
story on lecture tours for 50 years
40 years it's been a lot of years that
he's been on tour
how much you all want to tell sorry i
feel like i just want to completely skip
over dr pepper's story a huge percentage
of this book is devoted to it but i mean
all right um
spoilers the problem with having
an author who has been obsessed with
this topic
emotionally and intellectually obsessed
for 40 years or 50 years
is precisely that he doesn't have the
level of detachment necessary to
recognize that when he's given this
interview by ron taylor adkins by this
new witness to our administration oh
okay so um all the stuff i've been
researching for 40 years is completely
wrong
that's
that's the way investigations go right
like you commit a lot of time and energy
into looking into this into looking into
that and then you meet one witness in
this case it's not just a witness to the
crime but a participant in the crime who
tells you oh no this is what really
happened and you have to have the
detachment to admit to yourself that you
had been barking up the wrong tree you
were burning up several wrong trees over
a great many years so
this is not
william pepper's first book on this and
again if you even just search within
youtube or you search podcasts he's been
giving lectures at universities and
different kinds of humanitarian agencies
um you know for decades and decades
william pepper's story is that he was
very close friends with martin luther
king but for a short time perhaps the
last one year of his life in round
numbers
he published a pictorial most of which
you get here in an obscure christian
magazine called rampart magazine
and it was a series of photographs
showing how miserable
small children were who had been injured
by the vietnam war effort didn't really
reveal very much that's useful or
interesting but this pictorial resulted
in a very upset martin luther king jr
getting on the phone with william pepper
and hollering at him and weeping over
the phone and talking about how upset he
was it brought about a turning point in
martin luther king jr's life where he
switched from being primarily engaged
with
uh
african-american rights to vote et
cetera civil rights of black people to
being overweenily interested in the
vietnam war the ethics of the vietnam
war and ending the vietnam war so on and
so forth to what extent this change in
tactic or this change in focus led to
his death
is certainly worth asking as not going
to be covered in this book the other
shift that took place by the way in the
last couple years of martin luther king
jr's life someone can look up exactly
when he made the shift was that he
shifted from a black civil rights focus
to starting what he called the poor
people's movement
sounds a lot like communism because it
was
guess what supporting
the communist vietnamese side in the
vietnam war also sounds a lot like
communism because it was i think it is
fair to say based on what i know that
the increasing hostility of the american
federal authorities to martin luther
king jr leading up to his assassination
had a great deal to do with martin
luther king junior's own change in
politics
um don't believe me
who is lbj
all right that was the president united
states at the time
right there has never been any president
of the united states before since who
was more committed to helping black
people than lbj
all right so if you're making the
assertion
that it was lbj the president united
states who ordered the execution of
martin luther king jr you need to have a
good explanation because politically so
far as black people's rights are
concerned lbj and martin luther king
were on the same side
uh you guys sorry this is now forgotten
if you don't really do
political science lbj uh sent his wife
who was nicknamed uh ladybird johnson so
the first lady she went on a lecture
tour of the southern united states
explaining why black people and white
people should have equal civil rights
and she did that to crowds that were
jeering and booing her i mean she was it
was tough you know i don't know any
president united states before or since
you know has really done that it's
really taking on hostile crowds that way
most people as soon as they're elected
you know they switch from
electioneering mode to really kind of
permanent vacation it's kind of amazing
i'm just saying it's amazing how kind of
lazy and self-indulgent uh presidents
the united states are well lbj wasn't
like that now i could tell you a lot of
bad things about obj i'm i'm not up here
saying i do not think lbj was a moral
person i do not think he was a highly
intellectual person i tell you a lot of
bad things about lbj however on the
specific issue
of the legal and political status of
african americans lbj was on the side of
the angels and he passed all of the
landmark legislation that earlier
presidents united states just just
didn't show any interest in um
[Music]
you know a figure like eisenhower is
still remembered positively well if you
compare eisenhower to lbj eisenhower was
pure evil
right now lbj maybe he was a mix of good
and evil but there was some good there
was some good there especially on
exactly this issue right like in another
world lbj and martin luther king jr they
could have been standing on the same
stage together you know making the same
lectures that you know really supporting
one another
in this period
let's just say the one year
leading up to martin luther king jr's
death
the decisions
that made martin luther king jr an enemy
of the white establishment and of the
president united states and what the
federal government was doing they had a
lot to do with the man who wrote this
book with his friendship with
william pepper and his decision to
branch off from black rights to the poor
people's movement and to branch off from
civil rights political rights et cetera
within domestic policy united states
america into
vietnam war uh international communism
etc so that was
that was one step
he took one step that would change his
life and would uh would end his life and
it's also worthwhile to say that's not
what he's remembered for positively
today by african-americans or or
otherwise
okay so
my fundamental criticism of
the author of william pepper is that a
very large part of this book is his
story
i don't want to hear it i mean if you do
that part of the book is him talking
about how after he knew martin luther
king jr he tried to become friends with
the surviving members of the family he
tried to get support for a televised
trial for one legal challenge after
another how he pursued one theory after
another that all of which i basically
consider discredited and
okay it's not it's not well written it's
not that part of the book we're willing
pepper is thomas's story this is
supposed to be the definitive final
version of story but there are actually
some big significant gaps that you'd
have to find some other book to cover
so for those of you who are new to the
assassination of dr martin luther king
jr
you may or may not know
that there were teams of snipers
and observers
sent by the us government basically
military
snipers and photographers who were
placed on several rooftops surrounding
the shooting but they didn't shoot they
did not do the shooting but they were
there right as if just to prove that
this was a conspiracy that involved the
government which was an incredibly
stupid thing for them to do
um
the photographers
were on the roof of the fire department
how did they get up on the roof they
didn't climb up there like spider-man
they didn't throw up a rope like batman
they went and they talked to the fire
chief and they went upstairs like oh hey
we got to go up and hey we got to go do
some surveillance job where these
special photographers in the government
let us go up to the roof so there were
witnesses there are plenty of witnesses
that this happened
and the book talks about but in a
confusing and
incoherent and incomplete way the extent
to which those rooftop figures
some of them actually were traced they
were still alive and well and living in
mexico
some of them gave some interviews
so their existence wasn't just confirmed
by witnesses at the time but presumably
in their old age in their retirement in
mexico there were other traces now
i so that is a story worth telling that
could be a chapter in itself
but in this version of events that's
it's incomplete it's incoherent and
incomplete what what the evidence is
exactly what finally we do and don't
know about those guys
some of them so allegedly some of them
died under mysterious circumstances but
i don't know
i don't feel after reading this book i i
can pin down
what we know and how we know it about
those guys we're talking maybe six
people maybe eight people i don't know
exactly who were on those rooftops as
sniper spotter sniper spotter and then
the photograph crew who were up on top
of the um
the fire department right
phew um now again for those of you who
are new
some of you might be this might be the
first time you've heard of that well
okay sorry
um
you have no may have noticed that i'm
not presenting it as a matter for debate
as to whether or not
the american government was involved in
the assassination of
martin luther king jr
as with uh the assassination of jfk
if you want
irrefutable evidence of government
involvement
you need not look at the details of the
shooting itself
you can just look at what happened at
the hospital immediately after the
shooting
as there were there were things that
happened at the hospital in either case
jfk or
martin luther king jr there were
circumstances that were rigged there was
evidence that was tampered with and so
on so on that the mafia could not
possibly have done like it could not
possibly be that italian organized crime
was there at the hospital with military
men in uniform doing these things the
only people who could have sent those
guys in the military are the military
like either it's the military itself
either it's a conspiracy within the
military or it goes above the military
to you know basically the executive
office of the president states so you
know either unless you believe it's
really a military coup d'etat that it's
the military without leadership from the
white house you're talking about the
military with leadership okay with all
that having been said
i do not believe the us military shot
and killed martin luther king jr i
believe the version of events that is
here in appendix one the adkins version
of events if you like so i keep
referring to this the problem with this
book is it's written by a guy who was
personal friends with martin luther king
had this emotional connection martin
luther king jr and who went on to fight
one court case after another and go on
one lecture tour after another and
publish one book after another advancing
his version of events about who killed
dr martin luther king jr and why and
he's wrong
i mean his version of events prior to
appendix one began this book in several
important respects it's wrong and when
he wrote this book he couldn't let go of
some of the theories he put together so
a lot of these things
they don't matter regarding isolation so
to give you an example um
there was a man
who climbed up over a wall
and landed on the ground and then ran
down an alleyway immediately after the
shooting there were several witnesses to
this at the time he left footprints i
think because he fell with such force
after jumping over the wall and he left
footprints and the police took a cast of
it so i don't know if there's a plaster
cast or what you know to get the precise
size of the shoes he left a size 13 shoe
when he went out went over the wall now
i'm again this is not the most important
aspect but it does relate to figuring
out who was where exactly uh in the
shootings well you know so he interviews
someone a guy named frank strausser
and during the interview to frank
strosser he mentions that in passing so
i'll tell you a little bit more about
frank starks in a moment he says well
you know there was this guy who went
over the wall and people saw him and you
know the
you know the the footprints were a size
13 shoe
and frank strosser says back to him
i wear a size 13 shoe
and pepper just bungles it he just drops
the ball no no
take take the hint i think this guy is
being as honest with you as he can be he
doesn't want to put himself in prison
you know what i mean he can't he can't
just directly tell you exactly what his
role was this is a recorded interview
you know with a lawyer a lawyer who has
investigated the martin luther king
death for a year you know
he's trying to tell you what his
involvement was and you
won't
hear it
so instead even during that interview
with stressor and then in writing this
book i don't know how much i know it was
months later or years later but whenever
he was writing this up in the book he's
instead insisting on a theory that this
guy frank strosser wasn't the man who
jumped over the wall that instead he was
actually the man who pulled the trigger
that he actually had the gun and
if you read the book you can get a sense
of why psychologically pepper wanted to
believe that there's absolutely no
reason to believe that none uh
there's no reason to overturn what
adkins tells you adkins the man in
appendix one he gives you a complete a
detailed account of exactly what
happened because he was there and he was
involved as i'll tell you just a moment
there is no reason to overturn that and
say oh no no this other guy frank
strouser would have been the would have
been the shooter no okay
so
it's two books in one
ironically one book kind of proves the
other wrong
the portion of the book that is written
by
pepper
dr pepper um
it's not worthless
but it's written it's a kind of
serialized fiction narrative
of
the troubles he had with reporters from
nbc and abc
and then he did this trial for the tv
station hbo and
it's it to me it is fundamentally a
story
i don't need to read but i mean i guess
you could say it's the story of his
struggle to make
the assassination of martin luther king
matter in the mainstream press and it's
the story of the really weird
compromises he made where he like
interviewed people and then agreed to
like
uh never
never disclose their secrets until after
you know after they died and this kind
of thing and how oh well okay at that
time we did this tv special but i'd
already interviewed this person but i
couldn't admit it for this reason
and it is he does not have the
detachment or rigorous self-honesty to
tell you but a lot of it is him barking
up the wrong tree
which by the way is part of it's part of
investigative journalism it's part of
detective work you know you can do have
a murder mystery where you investigate
every single person who was in the house
at the time of the murder and you got to
be wrong nine times out of ten to be
right uh just once so guys as you can
see i have a lot to say about the book
uh this is hashtag booktube if you guys
wanna ask me any questions if you wanna
say something salient in the comment
section i'm happy to read them i have to
reply i also we don't have a big crowd
here not that many people too interested
in finding out about who shot jf pardon
me who shot mlk that's good okay uh but
you know if you guys want to take a
second hit the thumbs up button it'll
help a few more people join
uh while the live stream is is still
rolling i understand too
a lot of you will not have questions
because all of this is just kind of
mind-blowing and bizarre to you
oh you know oh well as as you kind of
you've got the impression i already knew
quite a lot about the assassination
before reading this book and you know
one could say that the pages the many
many many pages add to this by william
pepper they maybe they maybe provide
they provide corroborating details that
i guess might be reassuring to someone
who's stepping in knowing absolutely
nothing prior to prior picking this book
so you know it's not not a complete
waste of paper all right
so
despite
the
uniquely valuable
testimony of adkins um
[Music]
pepper tries to sell us on the myth
that the shooter was frank strouser now
i'm not going to get too much into the
critique of pepper on this
but
fundamentally it would make no
difference to history whatsoever
if the actual person who pulled the
trigger was frank strausser or not it
makes no difference doesn't matter at
all and again frank strosser was instead
indicating that no he was the guy who
jumped over the wall so i
and if somebody else jumped over the
wall that also doesn't really like on
that level of detail it's not really
what matters in the investigation of the
assassination of uh dr martin luther
king jr okay um
there are some big bombshells here about
who was involved in what capacity
and uh
one of the
crucial
conspirators
was the reverend jesse jackson
okay so i'm gonna put in a link to
wikipedia some people don't know who he
is
how could you not know
well not all my viewers are american
okay so
this is this is kind of a digression
rather than the main story
um
but
the revelations about
jesse jackson
um
[Music]
they are especially shocking
if you are someone who has grown up
seeing jesse jackson on cnn news and on
mainstream television appearing year
after year on the anniversary of the
assassination of martin luther king or
on some black memorial day and giving
one sanctimonious speech
after another now
again if you if you if you actually do
political science very few people do but
if you're someone like me who really
does political science you will not be
surprised at this revelation because
exactly what jesse jackson was doing in
kind of the minutes and hours leading up
the assassination is incredibly suspect
jesse jackson um
inexplicably arranged to relocate
uh martin luther king jr from what would
have been his regular room a room he'd
stayed in before that was in in some
kind of quad wrangle in a lower floor in
a kind of uh
hidden uh part of this hotel part of the
hill that wasn't open to a sniper in
this way
now apart from the possibility of
assassination you can imagine someone as
famous as martin luther king jr was at
that time i'm sure that was probably the
room they used for any celebrity it was
probably the part of the hotel they used
for celebrities even celebrities who
weren't afraid of being shot but you
didn't want people taking photographs of
them in their bathrobe or something you
know what i mean they didn't want to
have a window exposed to the parking lot
in that way they wanted to be deeper
inside the hotel
so jesse jackson
forced martin luther king jr to relocate
to this room that's perfectly located if
you just look at where it is on the
hotel it's the best possible location
for a sniper
to shoot him
and then also at the last minute there
was another group of black
activists activists well you know we
don't have to specify too much the type
of activists who would be uh
collaborating with and cooperating with
martin luther king jr they had the room
right next to him
suddenly and inexplicably jesse jackson
forced him out of that room forced him
to leave the hotel
like get your stuff and get out we can't
have you here
why like the only advantage of this
location was that these people are in a
hotel together and they can organize
what they're doing that day
there were a number of other things that
are suspicious and look staged such as
the fact that jesse jackson left went
out the door exactly at six o'clock like
this looked timed it looked set up and
actually where jesse jackson was
standing and how he was behaving
everything about it it looked like he
was part of the plot okay so here we get
from inside sources direct and i feel
verifiable claim that yes indeed
jesse jackson was part of the conspiracy
to kill uh martin luther king jr and he
wasn't the only one there were some
other black activists who were part of
this part of this group okay i'm just
gonna take a moment and look at your
comments guys so again how
today this is 2021. i think jesse
jackson i think he's almost a forgotten
figure he used to be a towering figure
in american politics even in the 1990s
or something so you have the potentially
significant revelation here that at that
time as now jesse jackson was a
pro-establishment figure who played ball
with the fbi he was an fbi informant and
collaborated with the authorities right
down to it including the assassination
of martin luther king jr and i suppose
we will probably never know what his
motivations were he might have felt
himself that
mlk uh had to go
okay
um so joshua lay asked an interesting
question here
uh quote how do you personally go about
differentiating the tinfoil hat style
conspiracy theory and the conspiracy
theory that sounds as if it
uh could be you know a ridiculous could
be ridiculous let's say but turns out to
be true
[Music]
oh you see you know josh um
i think what people really need to
understand is that how strange something
is
only has to do with how
familiar or unfamiliar it is to you
so i was talking to my mom about
politics a couple days ago and a couple
days before that i met up for lunch with
a beautiful
instagram model and we talked about some
of the same things two different things
but this instagram model
purely platonic relationship
uh uh she um
you know she was shocked by some things
i was saying about politics i think i
mean
it wouldn't be fair to say my mother was
shocked but she was just surprised that
she had lived all her life without
knowing some of these things so with my
mom i was talking about the reality of
american support for the khmer rouge for
the
some of the most violent communists
who've existed in the history of planet
earth some of those notorious oh well
for these reasons the united states of
america wasn't fighting against them
they're actually fighting with them and
for them you know okay well you know
politics makes strange bedfellows
that's not a tin foil
hat conspiracy theory
it's a completely verifiable historical
fact um
but also
you know it's not
strange
to me
right i've studied american politics
i've studied cambodian politicians
studying chinese politics i'm familiar
with the historical figures involved and
familiar with why they're making these
decisions and compromises
so to me it makes a lot of sense right
for someone who's a complete outsider i
remember talking to white people about
this in cambodia i was like hey you know
like
this was american equipment that was
used by the commercial you notice that
like
what do you think about that you know um
there are palpable signs here of the
alliance that went on and on between the
united states and the khmer rouge in
cambodia um
so
you know i'm just i'm just being honest
with you if you were i mean if you were
ignorant of something entirely then what
are the distinctions you can make about
what's what's a conspiracy or what's
what's strange and what's not strange so
you know right now
the consensus view in political science
is that pakistan
during the last 20 years simultaneously
supported the taliban and the united
states of america
just within the last two weeks i have
been told by the news so if i'm wrong
about this i'm being told this by
mainstream news journalism i have been
told that the pakistani
air force
was providing drones supporting the
taliban
that they were working with
the taliban now nobody believes that
started yesterday one way or the people
either believe that
uh people either believe
that
pakistan was working against the united
states covertly and supporting the
taliban the whole time or that they were
simultaneously supporting both the
taliban united states in case you don't
know um there used to be a war that was
called the gulf war now we've had so
many wars in the gulf that it's
confusing but there was a war between
iraq and iran
does it sound like a crazy conspiracy
theory to you if i told you that the
united states was arming and supporting
both sides simultaneously they were
supporting both iran and iraq when they
were war with each other makes no sense
that's ridiculous you know how could it
be that the cia got involved in um
uh you know
cocaine trafficking
well you know stick around it starts to
make sense the more you know about
history and politics
these things aren't surprising you and
also by the way you know i've said many
many times from many different angles
you know um
sympathy is an analytical tool i can
totally sympathize with the decisions
made by people in positions of authority
here i mean even you know the the
assassination of jfk jfk was no angel
i mean if if i had been alive at that
time if i had been a person in the
military at an elite level or something
and i was being asked look
do you want to get rid of jfk or not i
could totally see a solid line of
reasoning for why jfk had to die and why
people in elite positions would have
made that decision rather than another
rather than saying okay let's just let
it go for eight years
you know there were there were really
important reasons to assassinate jfk
which you will never get out of that
movie made by what's his name oliver
stone oliver stone is not going to tell
you hey look guys here's the dark side
of jfk here's what people were really
worried about and felt that they
couldn't couldn't let him live any
longer couldn't let him be in power
um
it was not
there were
not for silly reasons that jfk was was
assassinated and again sympathy is an
analytical tool i'm not telling you to
sympathize with them because sympathy
for the devil is a virtue in itself
sympathize because it leads to a deeper
understanding and
and appreciation
so william mcgehen says quote here's an
interesting observation jfk mlk rfk
yes well you are not the first person to
observe this
here is a handwritten letter
uh from the number two man in the fbi of
this time so the number two man of the
fbi is now notorious for being the gay
lover
of the number one man
so
this says at the top it's quite an
interesting historical document it says
my personal prayer list jfk rfk
mlk
and this guy the number two in the fbi
he was basically um
i'm blanking on the head of the fbi's
name not hoover what's his name uh
jagger hoover thank you
uh
this guy was personally the emissary
between j edgar hoover and the atkins
family in memphis visiting them three
times a year or four times a year
so he brought this note this letter
that's on a historical piece of paper
apparently taken from the
library of congress or something like
it's peace people from the 1830s that
has stamped on it my personal prayer
list jfk rfk
mlk and it's saying to the adkins crime
family i hope you can help me with my
prayer list it seems to be indicating
pretty directly that they either want to
kill
jfk rfk and mlk all three that this is
part of a plan to kill all three of them
or you could interpret it as being they
just want to destroy their reputations
like the most charitable interpretation
would be just they want to ruin their
political careers and that they're
interested in conspiring yes
um cat c-a-t that's both the three
initials of that guy i'm sorry i'm
forgetting his name well it's like
something like charles andrew taylor you
know it's it's his three initials but it
was also his kind of nickname and code
name was cat
uh so sir i can get his name for you but
i don't really want to write for oh
there you go clyde tolson and yeah so
here are photographs of clyde tolson
visiting the atkins family and that's
him with
uh the at the kids of the atkins family
so in terms of how regular visitors so
uh clyde tolson his middle initial
starts the letter a
he uh
he
sorry so cly clyde anderson tolson
melissa did the fact check there his
initial cat
he uh
he was traveling back and forth between
j edgar hoover and the atkins family in
memphis now this also gives you a sense
of how at that time the adkins family
was an unbelievably important crime
family
in memphis or at least they were
regarded as such and treated as such by
j edgar hoover it's very strange so why
would j edgar hoover and his sorry his
boyfriend as far as we know it's his
boyfriend or husband whatever i'm saying
but the man who was notoriously as gay
lover and also was formally the second
um
second in command
uh for the fbi why would they come and
visit and give this
give this piece of paper this uh this
prayer list so a very interesting and uh
incriminating uh piece of evidence
nacho says quote you and melissa would
look adorable with tinfoil hands
all right so
um
the account from this guy atkins which
is covered in
appendix 1.
adkins was 16 years old at the time
martin luther king jr was assassinated
and he had been deeply involved in his
father's business
his father's organized crime ring
at least since age 11 but he had already
been paying attention on learning things
since age eight and he describes all
this in tremendous detail i wish we
really had a biography or autobiography
of the guy but he talks about you know
just his role kind of serving
drinks and being in the room when all
these negotiations went on with all
these different crime organizations
including as mentioned the italian mafia
interestingly so um they were not
members of the italian mafia but they
did very much actively cooperate with
very senior influential uh italian crime
families
so
he grew up in this context and he then
sets the stage for and explains exactly
how it was that martin luther king jr
was attracted to
memphis at that time and how the hit was
set up where it was when it was at that
time and that they were directed to do
this and provided with stacks of cash
from the fbi
from
uh
j edgar hoover himself and that these
bundles of cash were directly
delivered to his father basically i mean
i don't say to his family to his father
in at least one case i think it was to
his mother but whatever same thing to
this crime family they that huge stacks
of cash were delivered to them by clyde
tulsa so clyde tolson would fly in an
aircraft
from fbi headquarters to memphis he
didn't have he didn't have another
reason to be in memphis memphis is not
that important a city united states
america wasn't there brother business
and he would meet with
uh
you know the reigning
uh head of the atkins crime family it
would stan hand them stacks of cash to
take care of
some problem or another now in the years
leading up to
the assassination of martin luther king
adkins had informants inside martin
luther king's circle
so he had people to my knowledge these
were all black people they were black
people who worked with the atkins crime
family whom he was paying some of these
stacks of cash from uh the fbi
so that they would report back and quite
my new details about where
uh martin luther king was going next
obviously also probably some political
information about what his organization
was doing
so in effect adkins was both operating a
crime family and a ring of fbi
informants whether they were aware or
not that um
they were working for the fbi they knew
that they were working for atkins and
atkins was the guy who handed them this
money
now to characterize the atkins crime
family i laughed out loud many times and
i remarked to uh melissa about this many
times how is it possible that when you
have a crime family that's committed to
this level of crime to carrying out
assassinations that they are
nevertheless willing and able to carry
out engaging in really petty really
trivial crimes it's just amazing to me
like you might think someone in this
position would have the attitude look
they're they're the people who killed
martin luther king jr they're not going
to do some petty uh purse snatching or
something but we have related to us this
kind of hilarious scam they had
this family controlled the city dump
now i will just say speculatively that
could be how they got into assassination
and murder because uh his father
literally had the keys to the
incinerator as a professional city dump
incinerator if you want to destroy
evidence
if you want to destroy a corpse it's a
very powerful position to be in just to
be able to incinerate a corpse without a
trace i mean today we have dna at that
time there was no dna
anyway so his father controls the uh
the city dump
at that time
many department stores
gave out coupons in the form of stamps
so these were stamps similar to a
postage stamp in that they had glue on
the back you were supposed to collect
the stamps when you made purchases and
then stick them into an album into a
book where you filled in a certain
number of spaces with a stamp and then
you'd get a free
piece of merchandise to reward you so he
gives the example of a baby crib they'd
give you a baby crib once you'd saved up
300 stamps or whatever it was there were
stamps was so
when these stamps were collected by the
shop they would be stamped again they
would have ink put over them to mark
them as void
and then they'd be sent to the city dump
they'd be put in the garbage like what
are you gonna what are you gonna do with
them afterwards well guess who controls
the city dump this totally corrupt
criminal
and he took these stamps and he would so
this is organized crime he had a whole
bunch of people working together so you
go to the dump you'd gather the stamps
out of the garbage he would put them in
a washing machine washing them like
laundry to get the voiding ink out he
would then take them and dry them in the
sunlight the apparatus that was used is
describing instead of quite a complex
apparatus to dry them in the sunlight
then lay them flat and apply new glue to
them he would re-glue the back and then
put them back into the albums and then
take them to this department store and
get hundreds of free baby cribs and uh
collectible you know so
this is the sort of uh committed career
criminal that old man atkins was the
head of this this crime family now i've
already mentioned some members of the
family were police officers um old man
adkins himself was involved in city
government and is also involved in in
elections in election hearing uh when
election time we get we get descriptions
of his uh his political vote in that in
that sense but there's another important
figure here
who is
ron tyler atkins older brother
and his older brother was approximately
20 years older than himself he admits he
doesn't know exactly how many years old
his brother was so that's a big gap he
had an older brother who was more or
less old enough to be his father
and it's a half brother it's a brother
from a different marriage okay
so you have some sense of who his father
was
grandfather the involvement this family
is simultaneously involved with the
police involved with the city government
to some extent involved the state
government they're involved with the
federal government through their their
personal friendship
with the leader of the fbi with j edgar
hoover and his boyfriend clyde um okay
so they have a lot of various powerful
connections they also have powerful
connections to
uh italian organized crime and those are
covered the italian the one italian and
one portuguese figure their their
stories are also told in this book
though you know whatever as i say if you
want to save time you can just read
appendix one and then get on with your
life and not read the hundreds of other
pages this book to get all those details
but it is true
each of those details corroborates the
others right like you get to see how
different pieces of evidence from one
source confirm pieces of evidence from
another source where each couldn't have
possibly known what the other knew
uh this sort of thing you know
um
the older brother
so
ron atkins has an older brother
he was
us
marine corps intelligence
and he knew how to shoot a rifle
so if you want to get into the details
of exactly who was where when
during the shooting
ron age 16 was given a motorcycle
he literally delivered the murder weapon
to his brother
he has his brother with two other guys
sitting together in what's de facto the
sniper's nest so there are three guys
together and the sniper's nest he
believes completely reasonably it was
his own older brother who pulled the
trigger and his older brother told
himself
his old brother said so if it wasn't his
older brother who pulled the trigger it
was the guy sitting right next to him
who's also named here but there's no
reason to think it was one of the other
two guys sitting with him he was the guy
who was trained by the us marine corps
he knew how to shoot a rifle etc etc
it's complete he himself said that he
was the one who did the shooting it said
you know so okay that seems to solve
that problem
um
so ron himself rode up on his motorbike
and then he was kind of doing scout duty
he rode around the neighborhood
repeatedly to make sure everything was
fine and nobody was out of place and
because he was reconnoitering with the
other conspirators and noticing what
cars he was seeing oh is that a funny
car in a funny place is that going to be
a problem for us he knew the escape
route where they would drive to exactly
he has a lot of corroborating evidence
of who went where
right after the shot was fired and this
this kind of thing
so uh
yeah i mean what am i going to tell you
that's the whole story
you can read it in detail with a lot of
kind of vivid and charming recollections
of what it was like for adkins to grow
up in that family
during that period of time
uh you can read about exactly what the
connection was with the reverend jesse
jackson with the black activists you
know within martin luther king's own
camp who sold him out and cooperated uh
and you get the precise mechanics of how
the killing was was uh
carried out so
plant-based powered you're incorrect
this is an interesting comment
plant-based power says quote well he was
a lousy shot if he was aiming for the
head he hit the chin instead
that's covered in the book
the hit it was specifically requested to
shoot him in the mouth
and
if you haven't read about stuff there
are several different
witnesses to that because some of the
people
uh involved were screaming over the
phone about that were heard screaming
over the phone that they specifically
wanted martin luther king jr shot in the
mouth
which is where he got shot so no he was
a he was a dead shot
uh but you also get uh
you know you also get
you get a sense of what the
assassination meant to people who were
alive at that time
which i think is invaluable and if
you're interested in william pepper's
perspective you get a sense of the
public apathy
and the indifference of journalists and
the uh
i don't know
the public in general in the decades
that followed because he carried on this
crusade for something like 40 years or
50 years when uh simply put nobody
wanted to hear it
okay so guys are going to read through
your comments and then we can wrap it up
it's been a 51 minute stream hashtag
booktube it's a it's a it's a book
review but if any of you uh want to read
more you know exactly where to do it so
i don't have to really answer any more
questions there's anything you guys want
to say um
uh so there's a funny joke
okay so jfk rfk mlk
nacho says
if this is a pattern
frk is next
melissa got it without melissa guy right
fully raw christina
um so yeah there's a question here from
william again william again says lee
harvey oswald james earway and sir han
soran
i mean that's the least interesting part
of the story
right i mean i'm sorry like like
the title of this video is who shot
martin luther king jr not who didn't
shoot the king jr you know yeah that but
um
uh this same guy dr pepper he knew uh
he knew personally uh james earl ray and
was involved with his legal defense team
for years and spoke on his behalf and
spoke with him and so and so forth so i
mean if you want to know more details
about exactly what james earl ray did
those are also in this book okay i
haven't talked about it it's a whole
different story um james earl ray this
book argues and i think it can be proven
to a reasonable extent he did not escape
from prison he was let out of prison
what he actually did after prison he
must have had the help of the federal
government to do
he was given
a fake id sorry i shouldn't even say a
fake id he was given a real passport and
real id documents for another person
that allowed him to pass into canada and
then he lived in canada for quite some
time the whole time he was being kept by
a certain um shall we say fbi asset or
you know a government asset whose whole
story is also covered in this uh
government in this document he's the guy
named rahul who is uh portuguese or code
named rahul whatever i'm fred his real
name is in there also his real identity
is uncovered and you get to hear a lot
of disturbing things about his life um
anyway
you know exactly where
he went and where his money came from
and i mean sorry
just to just to focus on that one point
even if you believe that he could have
escaped from prison
single-handedly uh due to his own
brilliance or something everything james
earl ray does after escaping from prison
uh requires support of government agents
or you'd have to believe he was part of
some kind of crime family that provided
him with these documents but even then
when you get into the details of what
the documents were and who the real
person was
um
there is basically no explanation for
what james earl ray does in between
leaving prison and his his being in the
right place the right time to be
uh
falsely accused of shooting martin
luther king jr he was moved from
location to location to precisely the
places where they had been planning to
assassinate martin luther king jr but it
didn't work out and then he suddenly
relocated to memphis um
where he's left holding the bag in this
case
so yeah and again james earl ray if you
don't know the details of the trial
they're in this book but they're easy to
find he did not plead guilty he did
protest his innocence he did talk about
what really happened
um
so his side of the story has always been
pretty easy to know so i mean james rory
is not the nicest guy in the world or
something but he did not kill uh martin
luther king jr he was put he was
set up to take the blame a remarkably
long time in advance which does indicate
that this was something that at least
some people in the federal government
have been planning on in advance most
obviously jagger hoover and the other
top brass at the fbi
so again you can get into
i mean the next question is to what
extent was this directly ordered by the
president united states of america i
would assume it was um the more you know
but how the fbi operates on those things
um you know and by the way also there
are many aspects of the hit of the
actual assassination of the shooting
that are quite amateurish right
and this deserves a question well why
use gangsters why use local
gangsters why not use a professional
you know army sniper now
it turns out this same family of
gangsters actually had a u.s marine
corps trained uh you know shooter to do
the shooting so no you know it wasn't
that different from having a
having an army sniper do it or something
you know well of course the reason is
that from the government's perspective
if some of them get caught or if some of
them get exposed or if some of them talk
the idea is that the public and
journalists will blame
organized crime or will blame the klu
klux land they won't cast aspersions
onto the government so that was you know
that's obviously the modus operandi here
for why involve amateurs at all now with
that having been said if you read the
whole book you see the tremendous
stupidity of that because almost all
these people went on to talk so there
are several very vivid energies this the
guy who's who's nicknamed rahul the
portuguese guy
you hear about a gruesome situation in
which he does brag about having killed
uh martin luther king jr obviously he
was just one part of the conspiracy he
didn't do it alone he didn't pull the
trigger but he was one of the
conspirators and then
you know
the antics that ensue because there were
witnesses to him bragging on this
instance the one italian gangster but
with those those i'm just not talking
about it but those details will give you
nightmares i mean terrible things happen
to terrible people and terrible things
happen to nice people too as a
consequence of that situation um
you know there's an italian gangster uh
who
when he's a very old man
um
boasts about killing uh martin luther
king jr in front of just one woman and
then her teenage son confronts him about
it
and it's a it's an interesting little
anecdote and he's obviously thinking
about killing this kid i forget if he's
16 or something at the time because he's
been exposed to this kid and then he
dies suddenly
could have been old age because he was
you know elderly and could be you know
uh it could be that he was himself
assassinated for having spilled the
beans you don't know you don't have that
so there are funny stories linked to
uh each of the various people um
[Music]
you know
who who were involved with this as
amateurs and who conducted themselves
like amateurs
the killing itself was carried out in a
kind of messy way
with a lot of witnesses and a lot of
questions being asked i mean you know
again why even involve someone like the
reverend jesse jackson that's amateurish
don't you know
i'm not going to get into giving you
advice here on how to carry out
this kind of operation but there are a
lot of things that went wrong however if
you just if you just read appendix one
if you just read the account given to
you by adkins you get a very good sense
of how this particular operation was
really thrown together at the last
minute because they didn't know he so
martin luther king came to memphis then
he left memphis because there was some
particular protest that went wrong it
was an embarrassment and then he
unexpectedly he came back to memphis
and they thought he was going to be
staying in a different hotel they
thought he was going to be in a i
believe was a holiday inn on the on the
outskirts of town and then he wasn't at
the holiday inn so it was really
something they threw together at the
last minute as plan b or plan c
they probably weren't totally unprepared
for it but they it wasn't a situation
where they knew long in advance where it
was going to be they had their
informants on the inside making phone
calls back and forth and all the time oh
okay he's going to be there and then you
can understand how they'd have to put
pressure on jesse jackson okay okay he's
going to you've got to make sure he's in
this room not that room you got to do
this oh no get those other guys out of
the room next door we can't have them
there you know were all of these within
within a day and a half or something
everything had to be thrown together
quite messily so the the amateurish
elements of the operation itself are
well explained in detail in this book
and then as they say you get to see the
disadvantages of the government working
with amateurs because many of these
people they cracked afterwards it left
uh it left a paper trail it left a trail
of witnesses and braggarts and boasting
and you know
it's hard to keep a secret when it
involves more than 20 people and again
this book for me does not
fully well sorry sorry
another area where you know you have too
many people keeping too many secrets is
the hospital this is a very detailed
account from one of the nurses of what
happened at the hospital okay well so
what do you do you're going to kill all
the nurses that are like what are you
going to do if you want to keep this a
secret you know so too many cracks too
many witnesses too many too many
problems and again i even feel what
happened to the hospital with the
doctors is well covered just in
appendix one because you get the
relationship between one of the doctors
there and the adkins crime family
covered so it all kind of comes together
um
yeah but
you know the role of james earl ray is
kind of the easiest part of the story to
pin down in a sense the value of this
book is telling you everything else and
the title is video is who did shoot
martin luther king jr not who didn't
so we get a question from plant-based
quote why did they want to shoot him in
the mouth
you 14 or something
if you have to explain human malice to
you
sorry
where do you want me to begin well you
know
let's start with adam and eve uh
why do you think
why do you think they wanted to shoot
a civil rights leader
a demagogue why do you think they wanted
the shot to pay them out why do you
think
14 years old man i'm sorry
no i'm not saying this makes sense but i
mean this is you know
yeah
so uh look so this video was just meant
to cover martin luther king obviously so
we have a question from william again
about lee harvey oswald um
i know a lot about lee harvey oswald i
know a lot about the jfk killing also
however lee harvey oswald was not a
sniper in the army that is not correct
um i could send you some links to
articles talking about what he actually
did in the marine corps uh in japan
and
anyway his his sad tale is a story for
another day
okay guys so it's been an hour it
doesn't look like there are any more
questions coming in i'll just wrap it up
there
this is the year 2021 ron tyler adkins
is now dead i do not know if uh appendix
one is going to be the last trace of the
story he had to share with the world if
so that's kind of sad
um
you know
ron tyler adkins is someone who really
had something to teach us um you know he
was a violent brutal corrupt
ignorant man who did terrible
unspeakable things to enormous numbers
of people he was born
into a racist
crime family i feel
he was he was really trained to be a
killer by his father and older brother
and from little bits and pieces that are
recorded here i mean we get little
glimpses of what he did with the rest of
his life after martin luther king jr
died he you know lived a life of crime
and like his own father he worked on
both sides of the law he worked for the
federal government while also being a
career criminal uh we get
tantalizing confusing glimpses of this
he gives us a detailed story
apropos of nothing it's just a
digression in his testimony where he
describes how
he set up a stand by the side of the
road
uh selling watermelons
and
some watermelons cost seven dollars
and some watermelons cost two hundred
dollars
the watermelons that cost 200
had a bag of cocaine hidden inside
so he was a coke dealer who was
disguising his cocaine dealing operation
uh in broad daylight by putting a bag
inside
and uh his family had been so close with
law and order there the judges were
corrupt there in memphis and the police
were corrupt that he basic according to
him in this story he got away with it
but how many times uh
you know how many times he went in a
jail you know in total i don't know
so you know sometimes
the most ignorant people
uh have the most to teach you but he's a
fragment of a society that you know no
longer exists he is a fragment of the
society that was left behind by the
losing side of the american civil war
he never referred to his organized crime
group as the memphis mafia he said that
they instead called themselves the
invisible
confederacy
that they were the confederacy i.e the
southern side that continued to exist
they continued to organize despite the
federal government after losing the war
um
[Laughter]
and uh
you know it it just so happened that of
all his hundreds of crimes he committed
in life at age 16 he was in the right
place at the right time to record for
the history of the world exactly who how
and why had assassinated dr martin
luther king jr
[Music]